## A Comprehensive Review of Machine Learning Approaches for Anomaly Detection in Smart Homes: Experimental Analysis and Future Directions.
In this study, we conduct thorough experiments over all the popular machine learning classifiers such as Decision Tree (DT), Na ̈ıve Bayes (NB), Gradient Boosting (GB), Light Gradient Boosting (LGB), Random Forest (RF), K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Linear Regression (LR), and two RNN-based models utilizing Long Short-term Memory (LSTM) and Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) for detecting anomalies in multi-resident human activities. The key contributions of this study are as follows:
- We generated 50,000 abnormal activities by considering all potential anomalies that could occur in a two-resident home, significantly enhancing the reliability of our re- search findings. Download the [Anomaly.csv](https://github.com/Rahman-Motiur/Anomaly-Detection-in-Smart-Home/blob/main/Anomaly.csv) file from here.
- Our research includes a comprehensive guide that examines how varying the train-test splitting ratios and implementing k-fold cross-validation impact the performance of these classifiers.
- In our study, we also present a detailed analysis of the computational complexity of these classifiers, spanning from the training phase to making predictions. This analysis effectively illustrates the trade-off between performance and computational costs associated with these algorithms.
- Our research entails a rigorous comparative analysis of these classifiers using the activity recognition using ambient sensing (ARAS) multi-resident smart home dataset. Additionally, we offer valuable insights and recommendations for future researchers in this field, aiming to guide and inform their work on similar topics or within the same domain.
